the fighting and the suffering goes on
in the Gaza Strip with intensifying gun
battles reported in the city of hunas in
the past few hours this comes after
Israel launched missile strikes against
the southern baffa area where hundreds
of thousands of refugees have amassed in
recent weeks Israel launched its
offensive against Hamas after it
committed Terror attacks on October
7 entire buildings reduced to Rubble in
Rafa
many civilians were killed in the
strike despite the city's designation as
a safe Zone by
Israel a Survivor pulled from the rubble
Mourns her younger sister and says she
narrowly escaped death
herself a wall collapsed towards me
there was maybe just an inch left
between me and the wall I held it there
it was so heavy I started screaming for
help hoping someone anyone could hear
me after being freed from the rubble
another Palestinian woman is taken to
al- NASA hospital where she consoles
surviving family members wrapped in
white are the bodies of her two
grandchildren we were sleeping safely in
our home those are kids kids in us women
there was no one
else my two grandkids were killed Amir
here she was just 2 weeks
old her birth wasn't even registered
yet she doesn't even have a birth
certificate Palestinians here say they
are left to deal with the insufferable
pain of loss
alone and we can now talk to Ahmed bam
of the Norwegian Refugee Council he
joins us from the Jordan Capital Aman
I'd like to start by getting your
reaction to the reports that both Israel
and Hamas are open to another
humanitarian pause in
Gaza good morning thanks for having me
um I mean in simple words it's not good
enough it doesn't it doesn't really the
sustainable ceasefire we have we're not
saying we're opposed to this we're
saying we're opposed to shortterm um
pauses that would only go U you know
bring people back uh to a wave of
violence and what we are seeing on the
ground tells us that we need a ceasefire
that lasts not days but really forever
what you know the the I mean I was
watching your report and this this baby
that will you know these babies that
have to be registered as dead before
they are registered as born I mean it's
heartbreaking what's happening and and
and as if suffering hasn't um hasn't you
know um taken enough toll on on the
people what we need is a very serious
negotiation for a lasting ceasefire in
Gaza uh according to the UN roughly 2
million gazans have been displaced by
the fighting and much of the strip
produced to Rubble the infrastructures
in Ruins water food fuel are scarce how
are Garin going to get through winter
without a pause in the fighting because
it doesn't look like we're going to get
long term one at the
moment yeah that's a good question
winter that that you know no one is
talking about and obviously there's
little space to to be worrying about
cold weather when you have you know um
bullets and and shelling from from the
air from the sea from the land the
clashes that are intensifying grafa
which you reported on is the southern
most area it's not exempt from uh from
the air strikes and from the attacks
people are spending their days and
nights on the streets my colleagues even
have now installed tents and um you know
they have lost their homes they have had
to relocate their families some of them
three or four times one of my colleagues
has had you know his brother was killed
in one of the air strikes he didn't have
even time to mourn because to mourn his
brother because he all he can worry
about is taking his children to safety
giving them a safe shelter if that is
even you know a word that that means
anything in Gaza anymore and bring them
get them the bread get them the the food
one of my colleagues say if you can find
some tinned food that you know that is
luck that is an achievement winter is
going to simply be probably one of the
worst seasons and now probably one of
the worst really one of the worst
Winters that Gaza even you know with its
standards and you know all the history
that it has seen this is by miles is
going to to be the worst winter on
record in
Gaza the US has increased pressure on
Israel to scale back its War there have
you or your team seen any signs that
that's in fact
happening not really I mean f first of
all we we're hardly getting um a word in
from from our teams because
communication has been lost for six or
seven days now and all we do is is get a
check in that you know everyone is is
alive really and everyone has woken up
this morning morning um you know they
they are all intact and you know um you
know their tent is intact their um
shelter is intact all we hear about is
is making sure um that everyone is is
safe we're not seeing scaling back I
wouldn't say we haven't um observed much
of that um again as you reported Rafa
which is designated as a safe area has
been sheld hunas very overcrowded there
um is also um you you know under under
bombardment um I think if we are going
to be taken this seriously in any way we
need um all powers that are behind and
and the allies of both sides and powers
that are backing all sides to come
together and put the pressure switch the
pressure on and you know avert a
probably
an a humanitarian catastrophe that the
people of G will never recover from if
we let them go through what they are
going through this winter um what we
need again is everyone to get back to
the negotiating table and exert every
pressure they can so that um Israel and
the AR armed groups in uh in Gaza can AG
to ceasefire release all hostages left
the siege and of course open uh
corridors and open the eight Crossings
for eight to come in the details there
from Ahmed bam of the Norwegian refugee
Council thanks for being on DW
news thank you the head of Hamas is
hania will be in Egypt today to discuss
the possibility of another ceasefire in
Gaza to allow humanitarian Aid to enter
the strip Hamas is considered a
terrorist organization by several
countries this comes as Israel's
president says his country would
consider a pause in the fighting in
exchange for the release of more
hostages large scale protests have been
held daily in Israel calling on the
government to secure the release of the
129 citizens they say are being held by
hummus there is also growing
International pressure on Israel to Halt
its attacks in Gaza as the humanitarian
situation there
worsts I asked DW correspondent Rebeca
RS if a new ceasefire is really
likely well that's right and that you
know may be surprising because both
sides were staunchly saying that they
weren't going to come back to the
negotiating table we are hearing as you
just reported president Herzog uh
Israel's president saying that that
Israel is willing and ready to come back
to the negotiating table uh we've seen
Benjamin Netanyahu meet with some of the
families of the hostages and again
reiterating that it is a priority uh to
get those hostages out that they are
taking heed they are listening and that
they are working as hard as they can to
make moves towards that he's under
immense pressure to see some movement on
the hostages uh but it's the other side
have been saying Hamas have been saying
that they're not willing to come to the
negotiating table but we're also seeing
movement on that isma hania the the
political head Qatar based political
head of Hamas is is reportedly going to
uh Egypt today now Egypt and Qatar have
both played a very big role in the
negotiations and he'll be meeting with
negotiators there uh and and other
people members um from the Egyptian team
to discuss coming back to the
negotiating table we have been hearing
that Israel would be willing to perhaps
uh stop hostilities for up to 2 weeks to
see the release of some you know we're
rumored to hear about 30 hostages of
course all of these details are kept
very very secret very under wraps so
we've seen in the past before the last
deal that that saw more than a 100
hostages release that they went up and
down up and down they broke down uh they
came back to the table it took it took a
number of weeks to get a deal and so we
could
certainly seeing signs in the right
direction Ben but it could be sometime
yet before we see a deal come to pass
and Rebecca all the while you've got the
UN Security Council wrangling over a
resolution uh calling for a truce even
if it were to pass would Israel
listen yeah well as you just reported
that vote has been delayed we are
expecting it today it was expected on
Monday then Tuesday then Wednesday in
order to try to get the language to some
somewhere where the US would not use its
veto power where it might be able to at
least abstain from that vote uh remains
to be seen whether or not that will
happen today but whether or not Israel
will heed that
warning it's certainly not looking
likely they're under pressure Israel has
been under pressure even from the US
who've uh sent many dignitaries here and
and politicians here to to try to
persuade Israel to move to it the next
phase as they call it of fighting a less
intense more targeted phase to try to
bring down those civilian casualties but
that's not something we're seeing in
fact defense minister yav Galant saying
that they're going to expand the ground
operations so even if that vote is
successful today in the UN Security
Council we may not see any moves from
Israel in that that direction Rebecca
ridders for us in
Jerusalem